(from https://www.facebook.com/sivaneaman/posts/pfbid0334jGBovYDVzhx69wnoccPxZAkQFAMVbGQacNg536B1EqV1YrjVBuyqZLp4QttJwPl, 10 Dec 2025)

This is a request for hard data about immigration in the United States. If you are interested in a thoughtful and fair conversation about that issue, read on. If you just want to rant, no need to continue...

I was a full-time missionary on the US border with Mexico, speaking Spanish, years ago. I have friends who are immigrants (and permanent or temporary visitors) to the US from numerous countries. I also emigrated to Switzerland for a time (and had numerous experiences with my own and other immigrant challenges there). I have adopted 3 children who are naturalized US citizens, and I have several relatives who've completed this journey as well. This has given me a certain perspective on immigration. I tend to assume that immigrants are honest and hard-working, and that their reasons for struggling to follow the idealized legal immigration pipeline that politicians talk about are not to be dismissed lightly. For example, I could tell you horror stories about the 10-year battle I had with US immigration to get it to follow its own policies and naturalize one of my children. To make it happen took lots of money, lawyers, and advocacy by someone with more English skills and contacts than the average immigrant, even though we did everything "the right way". I am certain that people who throw that phrase around casually have no clue how hard "the right way" is, even after you tick all the boxes.

On the other hand, I have two siblings who are medical providers, and I am certain they could tell me horror stories about writing off large medical expenses incurred by immigrants who couldn't pay. I have relatives who are educators, and who have witnessed the strain that immigrants place on teachers and class rooms. I've been a victim of crime on the border, and I've also seen some things related to drug problems there.

There is a narrative that views immigrants as a significant burden on society. This narrative often cites costs, but it rarely cites the other side of the equation, and this omission matters. Every time an immigrant buys a gallon of gasoline, they are paying for road maintenance in the state where they live. Every time they buy food, they're paying into state coffers, too. Every time they get a paycheck with social security deducted, they are paying into the same social safety net that they are accused of overusing. And so forth. Further, there is a demographic pressure created by falling birth rates that can lead to economic hardship for an entire society, as the age pyramid inverts. This is the case in Japan, and in several other countries in Asia, and it is a terrible problem. Immigrants tend to be younger, and to have children, which has value to society. What is the economic value of a dreamer, over the course of their earning career? I don't know, but I'm guessing it averages out to be a positive number of some sort.

What I don't honestly know, and what I'd like hard data about, is anything that would quantify this picture. Obviously some immigrants work primarily in the cash economy where they pay little sales or employment tax. Others do not. I'd like census bureau statistics that give me a ratio, and I'd like to know how this changes the outlays of the employers, not just the employees. I'd like to know how much it costs in tax dollars to educate a child in the US to the level of a high school diploma, because every immigrant who arrives functioning at that level has just saved our society that number of dollars by giving us a wage earner for free. I'd like to know how likely it is for an immigrant to default on a medical bill versus a native resident, and if the average bill size and frequency differ. And I'd like to know how many immigrants arrive with educational gaps that we end up paying to fix. Etc.

In learning about the Somali immigration issue in Minnesota, I found this resource from the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce that embodies the kind of information I'm after: https://www.mnchamber.com/.../economic-contributions...

I DO NOT want people to respond to this post with statistics that are sourced only to a politician or to a so-called "news" organization like CNN or Fox. Those are secondary sources. I want primary, hard data that nobody has had a chance to manipulate or spin. I also DO NOT want responses to this post that are filled with trite logical arguments. I am not trying to form a conclusion or prove a point here; I'm trying to gather data so I can think about it. If anybody has data like that, I'd appreciate a link.