I am analyzing testimony by Camarota, before Congress in 2024, about the negative economic impact that immigration has. He claims that the net present value of the net lifetime cost to the US economy of an immigrant is 68k. Here is the summary paragraph from his statement to congress:

Illegal immigrants are a net fiscal drain, meaning they receive more in government services than they pay in taxes. This result is not due to laziness or fraud. Illegal immigrants actually have high rates of work, and they do pay some taxes, including income and payroll taxes. The fundamental reason that illegal immigrants are a net drain is that they have a low average education level, which results in low average earnings and tax payments. It also means a large share qualify for welfare programs, often receiving benefits on behalf of their U.S.-born children. Like their less-educated and low-income U.S.-born counterparts, the tax payments of illegal immigrants do not come close to covering the cost they create.

In Zeihan's book, "The Accidental Superpower", he has one or more chapters on immigration, and he argues that immigration is a net positive because of demographic issues.

I am attaching a summary of Zeihan's arguments for reference.

What I'd like to know is this: are there other notable perspectives on the societal costs and benefits of legal and illegal immigration to the United States, that I ought to consider when evaluating this issue in my own mind? I am NOT interested in hot political commentary, but I mention both Camarota and Zeihan because these are serious thinkers on opposite sides of the issue who present deep, logical arguments that are worthy of careful evaluation. That's the kind of perspectives I'm interested in. And I am looking for variety here, not just a preponderance of thinkers that share a common perspective. Are there fresh/novel arguments for or against immigration being highly constrained or much more open, or maintaining the status quo, that I should consider?